>> Woodruff: PRICES PLUMMET AT
THE PUMP.
THE COST OF OIL KEEPS DROPPING
AND DRIVES THE SHARPEST WEEKLY
LOSS IN U.S. STOCKS IN THREE
YEARS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS FRIDAY.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS A PARTY.
DRINKING IN COLLEGE IS LINKED TO
INJURIES, SEXUAL ASSAULT AND
EVEN DEATH.
WHT INASTITUTIONS OF HIGHER
EDUCATION CAN DO TO CURB THE
PROBLEM.
HISTORICALLY, COLLEGES HAVE NOT
TALKED ABOUT DRINKING WHEN THEY
TALK TO STUDENTS ABOUT
PREVENTING SEXUAL ASSAULTS AND I
THINK THE REASON IS THEY'RE
GOING TO WORRY THEY'RE SNDIOUNG
LIKE THEY'RE BLAMING THE VICTIM.
>> Wooduff:r THE HEALTH RISKS
OF BEING HOME LESS.
>> Woodruff: THE HEALTH RISKS OF
BEING HOMELESS: WITHOUT
PERMANENT SHELTER, PEOPLE LIVING
ON THE STREETS STRUGGLE WITH
ILLNESS.
WHY LOS ANGELES WANTS TO PAY FOR
HOUSING WITH MEDICAID DOLLARS.
>> WHAT WE DISCOVERED IS THAT
OFTEN ONCE YOU HOUSE PEOPLE, THE
OTHER PROBLEMS OFTEN DIMINISH
RIGHT AWAY.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE, TO ANALYZE A FULL WEEK
OF NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET SANK
INTO A WEEK-ENDING SWOON TODAY,
OVERWHELMED, AGAIN,  THEBY
PLUNGING PRICE OF OIL.
A BARREL OF OIL FELL BELOW $58
DOLLARS A BARREL IN NEW YORK
TRADING, DOWN 12% THIS WEEK
ALONE.
IN TURN, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE SLUMPED 315
POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
17,281.
THAT WAS ITS WORST WEEK SINCE
LATE 2011.
THE S&P 500 DROPPED 33 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 2,002, ITS WORST WEEK
SINCE SPRING OF 2012.
AND THE NASDAQ FELL 54, TO
FINISH AT 4,653.
FINANCIAL EXPERT HUGH JOHNSON
SAYS IT UNDERSCORES THAT LOWER
OIL PRICES PRESENT A TRADE-OFF.
>> A DECLINE IN THE PRICE OF GAS
AT THE PUMP IS GONNA FREE UP A
LOT OF MONEY FOR CONSUMPTION IN
THE U.S.
THAT'S GOOD NEWS.
WE SEE IT SHOW UP IN AN INCREASE
IN CONSUMER CONFIDENCE.
IN NOVEMBER RETAIL SALES.
WE SEE IT SHOW UP IN AN INCREASE
SO THERE'S A TRADEOFF.
IN NOVEMBER RETAIL SALES.
BUT BELIEVE ME, THE DECLINE IN
SO THERE'S A TRADEOFF.
THE PRICE OF OIL DOES REFLECT A
BUT BELIEVE ME, THE DECLINE IN
DECLINE OR SLOWDOWN IN THE
THE PRICE OF OIL DOES REFLECT A
GLOBAL ECONOMY, THAT'S A WORRY
DECLINE OR SLOWDOWN IN THE
AND THAT'S NOT GOING AWAY
GLOBAL ECONOMY, THAT'S A WORRY
ANYTIME SOON.
AND THAT'S NOT GOING AWAY
>> Woodruff:
STOCKS WERE ALSO HURT TODAY BY
FRESH CONCERNS OVER ECONOMIC
GROWTH IN CHINA.
A NEW LOOK AT HOW THE ECONOMIC
RECOVERY IS AFFECTING INDIVIDUAL
AMERICANS, FINDS A GROWING
WEALTH GAP BETWEEN WHITES AND
MINORITIES IN THE U.S.
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER REPORTED
TODAY THAT IN 2010, WHITE
HOUSEHOLDS HAD A NET WORTH EIGHT
TIMES GREATER THAN BLACK
HOUSEHOLDS.
BY LAST YEAR, IT HAD GROWN TO 13
TIMES GREATER.
THE GAP BETWEEN WHITES AND
HISPANICS IS SLIGHTLY LESS, BUT
STILL THE LARGEST IT'S BEEN
SINCE 2001.
THE SENATE MOVED THIS EVENING TO
CONSIDER A GIANT SPENDING BILL
THAT FUNDS THE GOVERNMENT OPEN
THROUGH SEPTEMBER.
IT SCRAPED THROUGH THE HOUSE
LAST NIGHT, AFTER PRESIDENT
OBAMA LOBBIED DEMOCRATS FOR
SUPPORT.
THEY'D BEEN ANGERED BY
PROVISIONS THAT WEAKEN RULES ON
RISKY FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES, AND
LET WEALTHY DONORS POUR MORE
MONEY INTO POLITICAL PARTIES.
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT ARGUED IT'S
THE BEST DEAL AVAILABLE.
>> THIS BY DEFINITION WAS A
THAT IS WHAT'S PRODUCED WHEN YOU
HAVE THE DIVIDED GOVERNMENT THAT
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE VOTED FOR.
HAD I BEEN ABLE TO DRAFT MY OWN
LEGISLATION AND GET IT PASSED
WITHOUT ANY REPUBLICAN VOTES, I
SUSPECT IT'D BE SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT.
THAT IS NOT THE CIRCUMSTANCE WE
FIND OURSELVES IN.
>> Woodruff: WHILE THE SENATE
WORKS, THE HOUSE PASSED ANOTHER
SHORT-TERM EXTENSION OF
GOVERNMEUN
WEDNESDAY.
A MAJOR PACIFIC STORM LASHED
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA TODAY, AFTER
ROARING ACROSS THE NORTHERN PART
OF THE STATE.
DOWNPOURS OF TWO INCHES AN HOUR
TRIGGERED FLOODS, DOWNED TREES,
AND CUT POWER TO SOME 80,000
CUSTOMERS.
THE RAIN ALSO SET OFF A MUDSLIDE
IN CAMARILLO SPRINGS, NORTH OF
LOS ANGELES, WHERE HILLSIDES HAD
BEEN STRIPPED BARE BY WILDFIRES.
124 HOMES WERE ORDERED TO
EVACUATE, AS DEBRIS WAS PILED UP
TO THE ROOFTOPS IN SOME PLACES.
>> I CAME OUT ON MY LITTLE FRONT
PORCH HERE TO SEE HOW MUCH WATER
MIGHT BE GOING DOWN THE STREET.
THEN AFTER ABOUT FIVE MINUTES
THE DOOR SLAMMED SHUT BEHIND ME
AND I KNEW WHAT HAD HAPPENED.
THE MUD HAD ENTERED THE HOUSE
AND WAS UP AGAINST THE DOOR FROM
THE INSIDE SO THERE I WAS KIND
OF STUCK ON THE FRONT PORCH.
THEN SOON THE MUD WAS FLOWING
AROUND BOTH SIDES OF THE HOUSE
GOING INTO THE STREET AND I KNEW
I WAS IN TROUBLE AT THAT POINT.
>> Woodruff: OFFICIALS SAY THE
POWERFUL STORM IS NOT NEARLY
ENOUGH TO END CALIFORNIA'S
RECORD DROUGHT.
BRITISH OFFICIALS DEMANDED AN
INVESTIGATION TODAY, AFTER A
COMPUTER FAILURE SHUT DOWN AIR
SPACE OVER LONDON FOR A TIME.
THE INCIDENT BROUGHT HEATHROW
AIRPORT, EUROPE'S BUSIEST, TO A
STANDSTILL.
IN TURN, HUNDREDS OF FLIGHTS HAD
TO BE CANCELED OR DELAYED.
THE U.S. FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION SAID THE
DISRUPTION DID NOT DELAY ANY
FLIGHTS DEPARTING FOR BRITAIN.
THE PEOPLE OF JAPAN PREPARED
TODAY TO GO THE POLLS FOR
NATIONWIDE PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTIONS.
PRIME MINISTER SHINZO ABE HAS
CALLED SUNDAY'S VOTE IN A BID
FOR FRESH SUPPORT FOR EFFORTS
TO REJUVENATE A FALTERING
ECONOMY.
HIS PARTY'S VICTORY IS ALL BUT
GUARANTEED.
THIS IS JAPAN'S THIRD NATIONAL
ELECTION SINCE THE END OF 2012.
AND, NEW RESEARCH TODAY
UNDERSCORED THE HEALTH COSTS OF
OSTEOPOROSIS IN OLDER WOMEN.
THE NATIONAL OSTEOPOROSIS
FOUNDATION REPORTED THE BONE-
WEAKENING DISEASE LEADS TO MORE
HOSPITALIZATION AND GREATER
HEALTH CARE COSTS THAN HEART
ATTACK, BREAST CANCER OR STROKE.
THE STUDY LOOKED AT AMERICAN
WOMEN OVER THE AGE OF 55.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
THE LINK BETWEEN ALCOHOL AND
ASSAULT ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES.
WHY LOS ANGELES IS USING HEALTH
CARE DOLLARS TO GIVE HOMELESS
PEOPLE PERMANENT SHELTER.
FORMER DETAINEES AT GUANTANAMO
BAY FIND FREEDOM IN URUGUAY.
WHAT SONY'S SECURITY BREACH SAYS
ABOUT VULNERBALE COMPANIES AND
HOLLYWOOD.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS.
AND, THE GRITTY STORIES BEHIND
LAURA INGALLS WILDER'S "LITTLE
HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE."
>> Woodruff: THERE'S A GROWING
RECOGNITION ABOUT THE PREVALENCE
OF SEXUAL ASSAULT ON COLLEGE
CAMPUSES, AND, IT SEEMS, NEW
HEADLINES EACH WEEK, INCLUDING
THE HIGH-PROFILE INVESTIGATIONS
CURRENTLY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA.
ONE MAJOR FACTOR THAT'S GETTING
LESS ATTENTION, YET ACCOMPANIES
MANY CASES, IS THE VOLUME OF
DRINKING HAPPENING ON OR NEAR
CAMPUS.
THAT'S OUR FOCUS TONIGHT.
GWEN HAS A CONVERSATION WE
RECORDED EARLIER THIS WEEK.
>> Ifill: THE THINGS YOU FIND
AT COLLEGE PARTIES ON THE WEB
AND IN THE MOVIES PULL UP THE
FUN, ROWDY MOMENTS, THE ANIMAL
HOUSE CRAZINESS OF CAMPUS LIFE.
A NEW DISCUSSION ABOUT RAPE
ALLEGATIONS HAS THROWN A FRESH
SPOTLIGHT ON TO THE DARK
PROBLEMS ASSOCIATED WITH
EXCESSIVE DRINKING AT
INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING.
NOR THAN 1800 STUDENTS DIE EACH
YEAR FROM
OFFHUNDRED THOUSAND INJURED
WHILE DRUNK AND NEARLY 100,000
SEXUAL ASSAULTS LINKED TO
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION.
JONATHAN, THE PRESIDENT OF A
UNIVERSITY IN MARYLAND
WHICHHOUSE ABOUT 5,000 STUDENTS,
CO-CHAIR OF A COLLEGE
PRESIDENT'S WORKING GROUP TO
ADDRESS STUDENT DRINKING.
BETH McMURTRIE IS WITH THE
CHRONICLE OF HIGHER JAIRKS PART
OF A TEAM THAT FINISHED A
SPECIAL SE A
CAMPUS.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT DEATH,
INJURY, SEXUAL ASSAULT,
PRESIDENT GIBRALTAR.
OF THOSE THREE, WHICH ARE THE
BIGGEST CONSEQUENCE OF EXCESSIVE
DRINKING?
>> ALL OF THEM ARE THE BIGGEST
COPS QUEENS OF EXCESSIVE
DRINKING.
AND EXCESSIVE DRINKING IS THE
THING THAT I THINK BRINGS ABOUT
A LOT OF THESE RELATED HARMS TO
A LOT OF COLLEGE STUDENTS TODAY,
AND I CONSIDER EVERY ONE OF THEM
TO BE EXTREMELY SERIOUS.
>> Ifill: BETH McMURTRIE,
THIS IS NOT THE FIRST
CONVERSATION WE'VE HAD ABOUT
DRINKING ON CAMPUS SINCE THE
1990s, YET HERE WE ARE AGAIN.
>> IF YOU GO BACK TO THE '90s
AND EARLIER, YOU SEE THIS WAS
PART OF THE NATIONAL
CONVERSATION, AND MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS AND HUNDREDS OF TASKS
FORCES AND SO MANY EFFORTS HAVE
BEEN PUT INTO THIS ISSUE OVER
THE YEARS TO TRY TO ADDRESS THE
PROBLEM OF DANGEROUS DRINKING ON
COLLEGE CAMPUSES BUT WHEN
YOULIKE AT THE DATA AND THE
BINGE DRINKING RATES AMONG
COLLEGE STUDENTS, NOT A WHOLE
LOT HAS CHANGED.
>> Ifill: WHY DIDN'T THE
PROBLEM AS IDENTIFIED TURN INTO
ACTION?
>> I THINK THERE HAS BEEN ACTION
OVER THE YEARS AND I THINK WHAT
DID YOU SEE SAY MONG COLLEGES IS
THEY TEND TO FOCUS ON EDUCATION
AS A MEANS FOR CHANGING
STUDENTS' BEHAVIOR.
THIS IDEA THAT IF YOU GIVE
STUDENTS THE RIGHT INFORMATION
THAT THEY'LL MAKE WISER CHOICES,
BUT THE RESEARCH HAS SHOWN
EDUCATION WITHOUT ENFORCEMENT
AND WITHOUT INTERVENTION,
WITHOUT TRYING TO CONTROL THE
FLOW OF ALCOHOL ON CAMPUS REALLY
HAS A VERY LIMITED AND
SHORT-TERM EFFECT.
>> Ifill: IT'S ASK PRESIDENT
GIBRALTAR ABOUT THAT.
YOU HAVE BEEN PART OF THIS
COMMISSION BUT YOU SEE THIS
EVERY SINGLE DAY IN YOUR JOB.
>> BETH IS EXACTLY RIGHT, I
THINK THAT THE IMPORTANT THING
TO RECOGNIZE IS THAT, IN
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES EVERY
YEAR, YOU HAVE A NEW GROUP OF
FRESHMEN SO IT'S A NEW
EDUCATIONAL PROCESS.
BEYOND THAT, THOUGH, JUST
EDUCATING YOUNG PEOPLE ALONE
ISN'T ENOUGH.
IT'S GOT TO BE A COMPREHENSIVE
INITIATIVE TO APPROACH THIS
PROBLEM AND THAT INCLUDES BOTH
WORKING WITH A LOCAL COMMUNITY,
WORKING WITH YOUR COLLEGE OR
UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY, WORKING
WITH YOUR ALUMNI, BUT ALSO HAS
TO INCLUDE DETERRENTS.
WE HAVE A COLLABORATIVE LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGREEMENT AT OUR
UNIVERSITY AND OUR UNIVERSITY
POLICE WORK CLOSELY WITH SEVERAL
DIFFERENT LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES TO WORK OFF CAMPUS AND
BE ABLE TO WORK   -- YOU KNOW,
TO REALLY GET AT ADJUDICATING
THESE YOUNG PEOPLE WHO GET
CITATIONS FOR OFF-CAMPUS
BEHAVIOR.
>> Ifill: YET, McMURTRIE, IN
THE SERIES YOU DID ON HIGHER
EDUCATION, A TERM CAUGHT MY EYE
CALLED ORGANIZED COLLEGIATE
DRINKING INFRASTRUCTURE -- THE
SORORITIES, PARTY CULTURE,
TAILGATING, YOU NAME IT -- HOW
DO YOU TACKLE THAT WHEN IT'S SO
MUCH OF THE IDENTITY EVEN IN IVY
LEAGUES A LARGE PERCENTAGE ADMIT
BINGE DRINKING.
>> COLLEGES DO INHERIT THIS
PROBLEM.
AS YOU POINTED OUT, THERE ARE A
LOT OF CONSTITUENCIES THAT WORK
AGAINST EFFORTS TO CONTROL
ALCOHOL.
I THINK THE SIMPLE ANSWERS
REQUIRES THE LEADERSHIP.
THIS IS IN SOME WAYS A POLITICAL
ISSUE.
>> Ifill: ON CAMPUS.
N F YOU TAKE ON THE
FRATERNITY SYSTEM AND THE
TAILGATE AND BOOT STRUCTURE OR
YOU GO OUT AS FROSTBURG DID INTO
THE COMMUNITY AND LOOK AT WHAT
HAPPENS OFF CAMPUS WITH BAR
OWNERS AND LIQUOR STORES, YOU
NEED HIGH-LEVEL SUPPORT TO
TACKLE THIS COMPLICATED AND
SOMETIMES POLITICAL ISSUES.
>> Ifill: SO IS IT JUST A
MATTER THAT THE COLLEGES OR THE
LAW ENFORCEMENT ARE JUST LOOKING
THE OTHER WAY?
THE LAWS EXIST, THE RULES EXIST.
ARE THEY JUST LOOKING THE OTHER
WAY?
>> I DON'T THINK THEY'RE LOOKING
THE OTHER WAY.
I THINK THESE ARE INCREDIBLY
DIFFICULT ISSUES.
YOU KNOW, YOU DEAL PERHAPS WITH
THE FRATERNITY OR SORORITY
PERHAPS OFF CAMPUS AND THERE IS
A CULTURE AROUND THESE
ORGANIZATIONS THAT MAKES IT
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT TO ACTUALLY WALK IN
AND BE ABLE TO HAVE AN IMPACT.
I THINK THAT -- I MEAN, AT FRO
FROSTBURG STATE WHEN I ARRIVED
IN 2006, THE REPORTED HIGH-RISK
DRINKING RATE WAS AT ABOUT 59%.
59% OF ALL STUDENTS SAY THEY
DRINK MORE THAN FIVE DRINKS IN
ANY ONE SITTING.
>> Ifill: FIVE DRINKS.
FIVE DRINKS OVER A PERIOD OF
TWO OR THREE HOURS.
NOW IT'S DOWN TO 41%, WE'VE BEEN
ABLE TO MOVE THE MARK BELOW THE
NATIONAL AVERAGE.
>> Ifill: HOW?
THROUGH A COMBINATION OF
DETERRENTS, EDUCATION AND
WORKING WITH LOCAL BAR OWNERS,
WORKING WITH LANDLORDS AND
REALLY TRYING TO PROVIDE A
COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM FOR OUR
STUDENTS.
>> Ifill: WHEN IT COMES TO
CAMPUS SEXUAL ASSAULT WHICH WE
HAVE BEEN TALKING A LOT
INVOLVING THE UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA AND THE FLAWED STORY
ROLLING STONE RAN THAT STILL
RAISED QUESTIONS ABOUT BEHAVIOR,
DOES DRINKING CONTRIBUTE TO THE
INABILITY OF A WOMAN TO DEFEND
HERSELF ESPECIALLY IF SHE
DRINKS, IS DRUNK, BECOMES A
VICTIM IN ONE WAY OR THE OTHER
AND THE BLAME THEN SHIFTS TO THE
VICTIM?
>> THERE IS A VERY INTERESTING
ISSUE.
STUDIES HAVE SHOWN ABOUT
THREE-QUARTERS OF SEXUAL
ASSAULTS ON CAMPUSES INVOLVE
ALCOHOL, SO WE KNOW THEY'RE
CLOSELY CORRELATED.
HISTORICALLY, COLLEGES HAVE NOT
TALKED ABOUT DRINKING OR ALCOHOL
WHEN THEY TALK TO STUDENTS ABOUT
PREVENTING SEXUAL ASSAULTS, AND
I THINK THE REASON IS THEY'RE
WORRIED THEY'RE GOING TO END UP
SOUNDING LIKE THEY BLAME THE
VICTIM.
THEY ALREADY HAVE TROUBLE
GETTING VICTIMS TO COME FORWARD,
SO THEY DON'T WANT TO SEND THE
MESSAGE THAT, WELL, IT'S UP TO
YOU TO, IF YOU DRINK TOO MUCH,
YOU MIGHT BE PUTTING YOURSELF AT
RISK OF ASSAULT AND, YET, THAT
IS A FACT.
SO COLLEGES ARE WRESTLING WITH
HOW TO TALK TO STUDENTS ABOUT
THE REALITY OF DANGEROUS
DRINKING WITHOUT SOUNDING LIKE
THEY'RE BLAMING THEM.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT JI
WRALTER, HOW DO COLLEGES ATTACK
THIS AND AVOID THE ISSUE FATIGUE
THAT STOP THE CONVERSATION FROM
MOVING TO SOME BETTER PLACE LAST
TIME?
>> AGAIN, EVERY YEAR, IT'S A NEW
GROUP OF FRESHMEN SO IT'S A NEW
CONVERSATION EVERY YEAR.
FOR ME, TAKING A LEADERSHIP
POSITION ON THIS AT MY CAMPUS IS
EXTREMELY IMPORTANT, THAT
EMPOWERS OTHER PEOPLE TO BE ABLE
TO DO THEIR JOBS.
SO NEITHERRER I NOR MY
UNIVERSITY FACULTY AND STAFF
BECOME FATIGUED ABOUT ME TALKING
ABOUT THIS TOPIC.
IT'S IMPORTANT.
>> Ifill: BUT IF I'M A PARENT,
I'M A LITTLE FATIGUED OR SCARED
OF SENDING H MY CHILD TO YOUR
SCHOOL IF I THINK THAT'S WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> YOU SHOULD BE CONCERNED
BECAUSE IT IS A PART OF MANY
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
CULTURES.
WHAT I DO DURING OPEN HOUSES AND
WHEN SONS AND DAUGHTERS VISIT, I
TELL PARENTS THEY NEED TO BE A
PART OF THIS CONVERSATION.
WE NEED THEIR HELP AND SUPPORT.
>> PRESIDENT GIBRALTAR AND
McMURTRIE, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: SINCE THE FEDERAL
HEALTH CARE LAW EXPANDED
MEDICAID IN SOME STATES, ABOUT
7 MILLION LOW-INCOME AMERICANS
HAVE GAINED NEW HEALTH
INSURANCE.
BUT IN LOS ANGELES, HEALTH
OFFICIALS SAY THAT'S NOT ENOUGH
AND WANT TO TRY GOING FURTHER:
USING MEDICAID DOLLARS TO PAY
FOR HOUSING FOR THE HOMELESS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR REPORT.
DEBORAH MULLINS BLAMES MOST
OF HER HEALTH PROBLEMS ON THIS
BLOCK IN DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES.
SHE HAS BEEN LIVING ON THE
SIDEWALK HERE FOR THE PAST 30
YEARS.
>> DO YOU KNOW HOW MANY TIMES
SHE WENT TO THE HOSPITAL?
AT LEASTHE WOMAN'S HEALTH HAS GN
SO BAD EVEN THE POLICE STARTED
WORRYING.
>> WE'RE NOT EVEN DONE YET THIS
YEAR.
>> SHE'S THE KIND OF PERSON
DR. SUSAN AND HER TAME OF
DEPARTMENT OF L.A.'S HEALTH
SERVICES HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
FIND.
THEY SAY THEY HAVE AN OBVIOUSLY
CURE FOR WHAT AILS MOST OF THE
CITY'S HOMELESS, HOUSING.
>> THEY CAN PUT YOU IN TEMPORARY
HOUSING.
>> PUT ME SOMEWHERE.
THE HEALTHCARE REFORM LAW
BROUGHT INSURANCE TO MOST OF
L.A.'S HOMELESS POPULATION THIS
YEAR WHEN C.C. EXPANDED THE
MEDICAID PROGRAM BUT SO FAR IT'S
DONE LITTLE TO IMPROVE THE
HEALTH OF THE 3500 HOMELESS
RESIDENTS ON SKID ROW.
EVEN WITH BETTER ACCESS TO
DOCTORS AND PRESCRIPTION DRUGS,
THEY'RE STILL LIVING ON THE
STREETS, MANY WITH SEVERE
CHRONIC AND MENTAL HEALTH
CONDITIONS.
MARK DIRECTS A NEW BRANCH OF THE
COUNTY'S DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
SERVICES CALLED HIN ON SKID ROW.
IN OUR QUICK WALK, IT FEELS LIKE
YOU'RE QUITE OVERPOWERED BY THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE NEXT
FEW YEARS, HE PLANS TO USE
COUNTY HEALTH FUNDS TO PUT SICK
HOMELESS PEOPLE INTO PERMANENT
SUPPORTED HOUSING BECAUSE HE
SAYS IT'S NOT FREE TO LET THEM
LIVE ON THE SIDEWALK.
>> IT'S A HIGH COST FOR THE
PERSON AND THEIR HEALTH AND WELL
BEING BUT A VERY HIGH SOCIETAL
COST AS WELL IN TERMS OF THIS
COBB STANT RICOCHETING THROUGH
HOSPITALS, CORRECTIONAL
FACILITIES, BACK ON THE STREET
AND SHELTERS.
>> Sreenivasan: OFTEN THIS IS
THE SITE OF THE PRICIEST OF
INTERACTIONS.
PUBLIC HOSPITALS LIKE
LOS ANGELES C.S.C. MEDICAL
CENTER.
DOZENS MAKE THEIR WAY HERE OVER
CRISES MADE WORSE BY LIVING
OUTDOORS.
>> TRYING TO FIND OUT WHY PEOPLE
ARE HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: CAN COST
UPWARDS OF $90,000 TO $150,000 3
PER YEAR AND THE ASSISTANT NURSE
MANAGER SAYS THE RESULTS ARE
OFTEN DEPRESSING.
>> IF WE PRESCRIBE ANTIBIOTICS
TO SOMEONE WITH PNEUMONIA AND
THEY LAY ON THE GRATE OUT FRONT,
THEY'RE NOT TAKING ANTBIOTICS OR
GETTING BETTER.
WE MIGHT FELT LIKE WE'VE DONE
SOMETHING BUT WE HAVEN'T AND
EVENTUALLY WE'LL BURY THEM.
>> TAKE A SEAT.
>> Sreenivasan: TRACY'S STORY
ALMOST ENDED THAT WAY.
THE FORMER CONSTRUCTION WORKER
LOST HIS JOB AND HOUSE AFTER HE
FELL FROM A LADDER AND SHATTERED
AN ANKLE MAKING IT DIFFICULT TO
WALK AND WORK.
>> ANY HISTORY OF ALCOHOL ABUSE.
YES.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR THREE
YEARS, HE BOUNCED BETWEEN THE
STREETS, SHELTERS AND TOO OFTEN
THE EMERGENCY ROOM.
>> USUALLY THE EMERGENCY ROOM
WAS A LAST-DITCH EFFORT BECAUSE
I HAD LET SOMETHING GO FOR TOO
LONG OR I WAS REALLY SICK AND IT
WASN'T GETTING ANY BETTER.
TWICE I GOT INTO THE EMERGENCY
ROOM BECAUSE OF ALTERCATIONS
HERE IN DOWNTOWN.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THOSE
TIMES, HE HEARD ABOUT THE STAR
APARTMENTS.
HE WAS AMONG THE FIRST TO MOVE
IN TO THE 100-UNIT COMPLEX WHEN
IT OPENED LAST YEAR, UNDER THE
HOUSING FOR HEALTH DIVISION AND
THE NONPROFIT SKID ROW HOUSING
TRUST, AND HE WAS ALSO AMONG
DR. SUSAN'S FIRST PATIENTS AT
THE STAR CLINIC ON THE GROUND
FLOOR.
>> DOES THAT HURT?
YEAH.
DOES IT HURT IF I PUSH IT.
YEAH, STILL HURTS.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE NOTICED
HIS EYES LOOKED YELLOWISH, ONE
OF THE SIGNS OF ALCOHOLIC
HEPATITIS.
>> SHE ASKED ME, DO YOU WANT TO
QUIT DRINKING?
I SAID, YES.
SHE PUT ME IN THE HOSPITAL AND I
HAVE BEEN SOBER SINCE.
>> Sreenivasan: HE TRIES TO
KEEP HIS APARTMENT CLEAN.
HE HOPES TO REGAIN STRENGTH IN
HIS ANKLES THROUGH PHYSICAL
THERAPY AND START APPLYING FOR
JOBS.
>> MY INTEREST IN HOUSING IS HOW
TO USE HOUSING TO CHANGE THE ARC
OF SOMEBODY'S LIFE WHO'S
HOMELESS.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S THE
DIRECTOR OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY'S
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES.
HE AND MARK HELPED DEVELOP THE
HOUSING FIRST IDEA IN THE '90s
WHEN THEY BOTH WORKED FOR
SAN FRANCISCO'S DEPARTMENT
OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
>> WE DISCOVERED THAT OFTEN ONCE
YOU HOUSE PEOPLE THE OTHER
PROBLEMS OFTEN DIMINISHED RIGHT
AWAY.
THEY WERE USING LESS SUBSTANCES
BECAUSE THEY WANTED TO KEEP
THEIR HOUSING.
THEY WERE LESS MENTALLY ILL
BECAUSE THEY WERE NOT SO
FRIGHTENED BY THE CONDITIONS IN
WHICH THEY WERE LIVING.
THEY HAD A SENSE OF SECURITY AND
A SENSE OF COMMUNITY.
>> THE CONCEPT HAS SPREAD TO
MANY OTHER AMERICAN CITIES TO.
TAKE IT TO THE NEXT LEVEL, KATZ
IS MAKING A CONTROVERSIAL MOVE.
>> WE NEED TO FIND OTHER USES --
>> Sreenivasan: HE'S
ADVOCATING THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT ALLOW HIM TO USE
FUNDS FROM THE HEALTH LAW'S
MEDICAID EXPANSION TO PURCHASE
OR BUILD THOUSANDS OF ADDITIONS
FOR THE HOMELESS, TAKING THE
PROGRAM TO SCALE WITH FEDERAL
FUNDS.
AT THE MOMENT, TOP GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS SAY THAT'S NOT ALLOWED
BECAUSE HOUSING ISN'T A DIRECT
HEALTH SERVICE.
>> THIS DOESN'T REALLY MAKE ANY
SENSE BECAUSE, FOR A HOMELESS
PERSON, HOUSING IS A RELEVANT
HOUSE SERVICE.
>> Sreenivasan: NOT EVERYONE
BUYS THE ARGUMENT.
BRUCE DIRECTED MEDICAID AND
MEDICARE IN THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION AND IS STILL
ADVOCATE FOR MEDICAID AND
GOVERNMENT-FUNDING HOUSING BUT
SAYS COMBINING THE TWO COULD BE
DANGEROUS.
>> I THINK WE NEED TO FUND
HOUSING AS HOUSING.
I THINK THE PROBLEM WITH FUNDING
IT OR SEEKING TO FUND IT THROUGH
MEDICAID IS THAT MEDICAID IS
ALREADY UNDER ALL KINDS OF
POLITICAL PRESSURE BECAUSE OF
ITS EXPENSE.
IF YOU START TO SAY ANYTHING
THAT MIGHT BENEFIT A MEDICAID
BENEFICIARY OUGHT TO BE COVERED
BY THE MEDICAID PROGRAM, YOU'RE
REALLY OPENING UP A BOTTOMLESS
PIT, AND YOU'RE MAKING THE
PROGRAM EVEN MORE VULNERABLE TO
THOSE WHO WANT TO CUT OR
ELIMINATE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: OTHERS SAY THE
CONCEPT HAS ALREADY GROWN TOO
MUCH.
AT THE LOS ANGELES MISSION, ONE
OF THE OL'EST SHELTERS IN SKID
RO, THWE GOALS ARE SHORT-TERM
HELP AND LONG-TERM TREATMENT.
HERB SMITH SAYS HOUSING FIRST
WORKS FOR SOME PEOPLE BUT THERE
ARE MANY PEOPLE WHO NEED A BED
FOR THE NIGHT OR HELP QUITTING
THEIR ADDICTIONS BEFORE THEY TRY
TO LIVE INDEPENDENTLY.
SMITH SAYS THOSE THINGS HAVE
BECOME MUCH HARDER TO PROVIDE IN
RECENT YEARS AS FUNDERS HAVE
FIRST.
>> IT AFFECTS PEOPLE
DIFFERENTLY.
THE REASON PEOPLE BECAME
HOMELESS AND WE NEED TO BE ABLE
TO ADDRESS THAT IN WAYS THAT ARE
EFFECTIVE AND TARGET THE
PARTICULAR POPULATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: TRACY USED TO
STAY AT THE L.A. MISSION AND
VERY MUCH AGREES THAT KIND OF
HELP IS NEEDED AS WELL.
BUT THE HOUSING APPROACH ENDED
HIS HOMELESSNESS, HE SAYS, AND
EVENTUALLY HIS DRINKING.
HE ALSO KNOWS HE'S RELATIVELY
LUCKY.
THE PROGRAM HAS HELPED ABOUT 700
PEOPLE SO FAR.
5,000 MORE REMAIN HOMELESS IN
L.A. COUNTY.
THE NUMBER OF HOUSING FOR HEALTH
TEAM SAYS WOULD FALL
DRAMATICALLY WITH THE FEDERAL
HELP THEY'RE REQUESTINGER FOR
THE PBS "NewsHour", I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> Woodruff: SIX FORMER
GUANTANAMO DETAINEES WERE
TRANSFERRED TO THE SOUTH
AMERICAN COUNTRY OF URUGUAY THIS
WEEK.
THEY WERE NEVER CHARGED WITH ANY
CRIMES. ONE OF THE MEN, ABU
WA'EL DHIAB, HAS BEEN ON A
HUNGER STRIKE FOR YEARS AND WAS
SUBJECTED TO FORCE FEEDINGS.
HIS ATTORNEYS HAVE SUED THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT FOR RELEASE OF
VIDEOTAPES OF THE FORCE-FEEDING
SESSIONS.
I SPOKE WITH HIS ATTORNEY, CORI
CRIDER, A SHORT TIME AGO.
COREY CRIDER, WELCOME.
THESE MEN WHO HAVE BEEN RELEASED
HOW HAVE THEY BEEN RECEIVED?FOR
>> I'VE NEVER IN MY MANY YEARS
OF DOING THIS WORK SEEN A
RECEPTION LIKE.
THIS IT IS OVERWHELMING, WARMTH
AND COMPASSION.
WHEN MY CLIENT, WHO HAS BEEN ON
A HUNGER STRIKE FOR MOST THE
PAST TWO YEARS, WERE GOING
AROUND THE HOSPITAL WARD TO HAVE
TESTS, OTHER PATIENTS IN THE
WARD CAME OUT OF THEIR ROOMS AND
LEANED IN AND SMILED AND WAVED.
I HAVE BEEN HUGGED BY MOTHERS IN
A SUPERMARKET BECAUSE I
REPRESENTED A GUANTANAMO
PRISONER.
WE ARE SO PLEASED.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF THE MEN
WENT FOR A LONG WALK.
AS YOU MENTIONED, YOUR CLIENT
HAS BEEN ON A HUNGER STRIKE.
HIS HEALTH HAS BEEN A REAL
ISSUE.
HOW IS HE DOING?
>> HE'S RECOVERING SLOWLY WITH
EVERY DAY HE SEEMS TO HAVE A BIT
MORE COLOR IN HIS FACE BUT HE
WAS UNFORTUNATELY ONE OF THE MEN
TO GO ON A LONG WALK.
WE HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT.
I SHOWED HIM PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE
SUNSET.
AS YET, HE HASN'T GONE OUT.
THE OTHERS SMELLED THE SEA AIR
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 12 YEARS
AND THAT'S A REALLY SPECIAL
MOMENT WHEN YOU HAVE BEEN HEALTH
WITHOUT CHARGE OR TRIAL, OF
COURSE.
>> Woodruff: HOW FREE ARE THEY
TO MOVE ABOUT AND DO WHAT THEY
WANT?
>> THEY'RE FREE.
THEY'VE GONE DOWN TO THE CAFE.
I THINK THEY'VE DONE A SPOT OF
SHOPPING WITH FRIENDS.
AT THE MOMENT, I THINK THE THING
THAT'S MOST DIFFICULT IS I DON'T
THINK ANY OF US CAN REALLY
COMPREHEND THE EXTENT TO WHICH
12 YEARS IN GUANTANAMO WITHOUT
CHARGE OR TRIAL TAKES TIME TO
RECOVER FROM.
ONE OF MY CLIENTS BASICALLY SAID
TO ME, IT IS EFFECTIVELY LIKE
BEING BORN FOR THE SECOND TIME.
THEY ARE HAVING TO LEARN THINGS
VERY BASIC.
ANOTHER CLIENT SAID, I HAVEN'T
HEARD THE LAUGHTER OF A CHILD IN
OVER TEN YEARS.
SO AFTER HAVING SO MUCH LOSS,
THEY'RE REALLY GOOD AT TAKING
THEIR FIRST STEPS AS FREE MEN
AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT ARE THEIR
PLANS TO THE EXTENT THEY HAVE
ANY?
>> YES, WELL, OF COURSE, IT
TAKES TIME TO MAKE PLANS, SO WE
ARE REALLY ONLY ON DAY SIX.
WHEN I TALKED TO ABU WA'EL
DHIAB, WE TALKED ABOUT HOW HE
USED TO MANAGE A SYRIAN
RESTAURANT AND WE TALKED ABOUT
HOW HE COULD MANAGE ONE HERE.
SOME OF THEM ARE IN SPANISH
CLASSES.
THEY ARE PROGRESSING.
IT WILL TAKE TIME.
FORCIBLE CELL EXTRACTIONS WITH
THE RIOT SQUAD HAULING HIM FROM
HIS CELL AND THE FORCE FEEDINGS
WILL TAKE TIME TO RECOVER FROM
BUT I'M DELIGHTED TO SAY THEY'RE
ALL ON THE ROAD TO RECOVERY.
>> Woodruff: COREY CRIDER,
ATTORNEY FOR ONE OF THE MEN
RELEASED THIS WEEK FROM
GUANTANAMO BAY.
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS SO MUH.C
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN JUST
ABOUT TWO WEEKS SINCE WORD BROKE
OF CYBERCRIMINALS HACKING INTO
SONY PICTURES.
AND EACH DAY SEEMS TO BRING MORE
DAMAGING, EMBARRASSING OR
WORRISOME REVELATIONS.
THE HACKERS HAVE RELEASED A
STEADY FLOW OF INFORMATION,
RANGING FROM SALARIES, TO
PERSONAL EMAILS, SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBERS AND HEALTH RECORDS OF
EMPLOYEES, TO INTERNAL MESSAGES
SHOWCASING INDUSTRY HARDBALL.
THE PAST COUPLE OF DAYS HAVE
BEEN EVEN WORSE FOR THE COMPANY
IF YOU CAN BELIEVE THAT.
AND AGAIN TO HARI, WHO IS IN OUR
NEW YORK STUDIOS TONIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE LATEST
EMAILS PUT NEW PRESSURE ON AMY
PASCAL, THE CO-CHAIR OF SONY
ENTERTAINMENT ANDNE O OF THE
MOST POWERFUL EXECUTIVES IN
HOLLYWOOD.
IT'S FOCUSED ON CONFIDENTIAL
EMAILS BETWEEN PASCAL AND SCOTT
RUDIN, A POWERFUL PRODUCER.
BEFORE A FUNDRAISER FOR
PRESIDENT OBAMA, THEY EXCHANGED
MESSAGES IN WHICH THEY TRY TO
GUESS HIS FAVORITE MOVIES, ALL
WITH AFRICAN-AMERICANS.
PASCAL WRITES: "SHOULD I ASK HIM
IF HE LIKED DJANGO" REFERRING TO
"DJANGO UNCHAINED."
RUDIN WRITES BACK "12 YEARS,"
FOR "12 YEARS A SLAVE."
PASCAL RESPONDS: "OR THE BUTLER?
OR THINK LIKE A MAN?"
BOTH APOLOGIZED YESTERDAY.
IT'S NOT YET CLEAR WHO'S BEHIND
THE HACKING.
BUT THEY CALL THEMSELVES THE
GUARDIANS OF PEACE.
WE TURN TO TWO WATCHING THIS
CLOSELY.
SHARON WAXMAN, EDITOR IN CHIEF
OF THE WRAP, AN INDUSTRY NEWS
SITE, AND JAMES LEWIS, A
CYBERSECURITY EXPERT AT THE
CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
I WANT TO START WITH YOU.
YOU'RE ONE TO HAVE THE FEW
PEOPLE TO GET IN TOUCH WITH
MS. PASCAL YESTERDAY.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS HACK IN
IS THIS WHAT FOLKS IN TINSELTOWN
ARE ALL TALKING ABOUT NOW?
>> IT'S THE ONLY THING PEOPLE
ARE TALKING ABOUT.
IT'S BY FAR THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
THING TO HAPPEN IN THE BUSINESS
THIS YEAR FOR SURE.
PROBABLY WILL BE IN PEOPLE'S
LIVES FOR YEARS TO COME.
LARGELY BECAUSE THE STUDIO HAS
BEEN MORE OR LESS PARALYZED FOR
WEEKS NOW, I DON'T THINK THAT
THE STUDIO IS BACK TO NORMAL,
FROM WHAT WE HEAR THEY'RE DOING
BILLING BY HAND.
YESTERDAY, WE BROKE A STORY THAT
THE HACKERS ONCE AGAIN
PENETRATED THEIR NETWORK AND
PLASHED A MESSAGE ON THEIR
COMPUTER SCREENS, THREATENING TO
DO MORE DAMAGE IF THEIR DEMANDS
WERE MET.
THAT BEING SAID, THEIR DEMANDS
ARE NOTT A ALL CLEAR.
BUT I CAN EVERY SINGLE STUDIO IN
TOWN IS CHECKING THEIR OWN
SECURITY AND EVERYONE IS WORRIED
ABOUT THEIR E-MAILS BECAUSE, OF
COURSE, ANYONE WHO'S HAD CONTACT
WITH SONY'S EMAIL SYSTEM, WHICH
IS EVERYONE, IS WORRIED ABOUT
THEY MIGHT BE IMPACTED AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: JAMES LEWIS,
THIS ISN'T THE NORMAL KIND OF
HACK IN THE SENSE IF SOMEONE WAS
ABLE TO GET SOMETHING AS
SENSITIVE AS SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBERS, YOU SEE THAT BEING SOLD
ON THE DARKER PORTIONS OF THE
INTERNET.
TELL US HOW THIS IS DIFFERENT.
>> IT'S DIFFERENT IN A COUPLE OF
WAYS.
THE FIRST IS THERE DOESN'T
APPEAR TO BE A COMMERCIAL
MOTIVE.
IT'S SOME KIND OF A POLITICAL,
MAYBE PERSONAL MOTIVE.
THE SECOND IS IT'S BEEN GOING ON
FOR A LONG TIME.
MOST CRIMES ARE SMASH AND GRABS.
YOU GET IN, GET THE DATA AND
SELL IT.
FINALLY, THIS IS A LITTLE MORE
SOPHISTICATED IN SOME OF THE
THINGS WE'VE SEEN.
IT TRACKS VERY CLOSELY WITH WHAT
NORTH KOREA HAS DONE IN THE PAST
BUT IT'S NO WAY CONCLUSIVE.
AND THE NORTH KOREANS HAVE NEVER
BEFORE GONE AFTER AN AMERICAN
TARGET, SO IN MANY WAYS THIS IS
A BIGGER DEAL THAN WHAT WE'VE
SEEN PREVIOUSLY.
>> Sreenivasan: SHARON, HELP
ME UNDERSTAND.
DOES THIS CHANGE HOW ACTORS AND
AGENCIES AND STUDIOS DO
BUSINESS?
IF I READ THROUGH SOME OF THIS,
I KNOW WHAT ACTORS MAKE, WHAT
PERKS ARE INCLUDED IN DEALS
GOING ON BEHIND CLOSED DOORS,
AND ALSO YOU GET A SENSE THAT,
YOU KNOW, THERE IS THIS
DISTURBING DATA THAT CONFIRMED
THE GENDER DISPARITY THAT EXISTS
AT THE THE TOP OF HOLLYWOOD.
>> THE GENDER DISPARITY, WHICH
IS, BY THE WAY, ALSO ETHNIC
DISPARITY, IS NOT NEWS TO
ANYBODY INVOLVED IN THE
ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY.
IT'S HEAVILY WHITE AND HEAVILY
MALE AND AMY PASCAL IS ONE OF
THE HANDFUL OF EXTREMELY
POWERFUL WOMEN EXECUTIVES IN
TOWN.
BUT IF YOU'RE REFERRING TO THE
FACT THAT THE TOP
MILLION-DOLLAR-PLUS SALARIES
WERE RELEASED AND PRETTY MUCH
SHE WAS THE ONLY ONE ON THE LIST
THAT WAS A WOMAN, YES, I THINK
THAT UNDERLINES THAT.
BUT IT'S MORE DISTURBING IN
TERMS OF DOING BUSINESS TO WHAT
YOU'RE REFERRING TO, HAVING
CONCLUSIVE INFORMATION ABOUT
WHAT PERKS EVERY STAR, WHAT
STARS ARE ACTUALLY MAKING
WITHIN, YOU KNOW, THE PRIVATE
NEGOTIATIONS THAT GO ON FOR
VARIOUS PROJECTS.
PEOPLE HAVE ACTORS, FEES AND
AGENTS.
BUT, OF COURSE, WHAT IS SAID AND
ACTUALLY CONCLUDED IS THERE'S
ALWAYS THAT MURKY SPACE.
THAT'S ALL BEEN RIPPED AWAY WITH
THE REVELATION OF THESE E-MAILS
AND JUST ONE THING AFTER ANOTHER
THAT IS, YOU KNOW, EMBARRASSING
AND THAT IS GOING TO MAKE IT
DIFFICULT, I THINK, FOR SONY TO
BE -- YEAH, REGARDED AS A PLACE
WHERE YOU CAN DO YOUR BUSINESS
AND THAT IT REMAINS PRIVATE.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT IS ONE
PART OF THE DAMAGE TO THE STUDIO
AND I THINK TO AMY PASCAL
PERSONALLY BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE
A VERY PERSONAL ATTACK ON HER IS
DEVASTATING.
>> Sreenivasan: JIM, WHAT DO
WE KNOW ABOUT THE IDENTITIES OF
THE HACKERS?
WHAT SORT OF CLUES ARE THE
INVESTIGATORS WORKING WITH?
>> THEY'RE WORKING WITH THE CODE
WHICH INCLUDES SOME KOREAN
LANGUAGE WHICH POINTS TOWARD
NORTH KOREA.
WE'RE LOOKING AT THE MALWARE
WHICH IS SIMILAR TO WHAT THEY'VE
USED IN PAST AND ALSO USED BY
IRANIANS AND OTHERS IN THEIR
CYBER INCIDENTS.
WE'RE LOOKING AT THE MOTIVATIONS
IN THE STATEMENTS.
THE NORTH KOREANS DENY IT.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING.
EVERYBODY ALWAYS DENIES COVERT
ACTION.
WHAT'S INTERESTING IS THEY ALSO
TURNED AROUND AND SAID, IT
WASN'T US, BUT, BY THE WAY,
WE'RE REALLY GLAD TO SEE THIS
HAPPEN.
IT'S INTERESTING TO NOTE THIS
SUMMER THE NORTH KOREANS SENT A
LETTER TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
U.N. PROTESTING THE FILM, ASKING
IT BE BANNED AND USING LANGUAGE
SIMILAR TO WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN
THE HACK.
SO IN NO WAY IS THIS CONCLUSIVE
BUT THEY'RE THE LEAD SUSPECT.
>> Sreenivasan: SHARON, DOES
THIS FUEL TENSION BETWEEN
ARTISTS AND THE STUDIOS IN THE
SENSE THAT WHEN YOU READ SOME OF
THE E-MAILS REGARDLESS THE RACE
OF THE ARTISTS THEY SEEM TO BE
EXPRESSING ON TWITTER AND OTHER
PLACES, YOU KNOW, WE'RE THE
HELP, WE MAKE THE MONEY FOR THE
STUDIOS BUT THIS IS REALLY WHAT
THEY THINK OF US BEHIND CLOSED
DOORS.
>> IT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE I'VE
HAD CALLS THIS YEAR COMPLETELY
UNRELATED FROM THIS FROM PEOPLE
WHO REPRESENT DIRECTORS AND
ACTORS SAYING THERE'S A SERF,
LANDLORD FEELING IN HOLLYWOOD
AND ASKS ME TO FIND OUT WHO'S
MAKING A MILLION DOLLARS OR MORE
AT THE STUDIOS AS THEY GRIND
DOWN THE SALARIES OF THE ACTORS.
BUT YOU HAVE SITUATIONS, I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU'VE SEEN TWITTER,
ANGELINA JOLIE MENTIONED IN THE
E-MAILS BETWEEN AMY PASCAL AND
SCOTT RUDIN, A VERY POWERFUL
PRODUCER, HE WAS INSULTING TO
HER IN THE E-MAILS AND SHE IS
OBVIOUSLY A DIRECTOR NOW, HAS A
MOVIE COMING OUT SHORTLY,
"UNBROKEN" AND THEY'RE TALKING
ABOUT HER IN RELATION TO
INTERRUPTING NEGOTIATIONS OVER A
MOVIE THEY'RE TRYING TO MAKE
ABOUT STEVE JOBS AND HE REFERS
TO HER AS A SPOILED BRAT.
JUST SO HAPPENS SHE WAS AT A
BREAKFAST WITH AMY PASCAL.
THERE IS A PRETTY ICY PHOTO OF
THE TWO OF THEM GREETING EACH
OTHER.
SO IF YOU'RE ASKING HOW IT
AFFECTS TALENT RELATIONS, AMY
PASCAL IS KNOWN AS SOMEBODY WHO
HAS WARM RELATIONS WITH TALENT.
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT THING.
THIS IS A BUSINESS OF
RELATIONSHIPS, AND THAT MAKES
EVERYTHING FROCKED AT THE MOMENT
FOR SURE.
>> Sreenivasan: SHARON WAXMAN,
JAMES LEWIS, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK, CONGRESS
IS GOING DOWN TO THE WIRE AGAIN
ON AVERTING A GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
NEW AND FAMILIAR DIVISIONS
EMERGED AMONG BOTH PARTIES.
AND ALL THAT HAPPENED JUST DAYS
AFTER A REPORT ON THE C.I.A.'S
ALLEGED USE OF TORTURE WENT
PUBLIC.
FOR ALL THAT AND MORE, WE TURN
TO THE ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND
BROOKS: SYNDICATED COLUMNIST
MARK SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST" DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
SO, MARK, WE'RE GOING RIGHT DOWN
TO THE WIRE ONCE AGAIN ON A
SPENDING BILL.
WAS THIS INEVITABLE?
LAME DUCK SESSION, AFTER THE
MIDTERM ELECTIONS.
IS THIS WHAT WE KNEW WOULD
HAPPEN?
>> PROBABLY, JUDY, AND IT'S A
GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE WHO
HAVE PARTICULAR CAUSES THAT THEY
WANT TO SLIP INTO THE FINAL
LEGISLATION, THAT THE TRAIN IS
PULLING OUT OF THE STATION, YOU
HAVE TO VOTE TO KEEP THE
GOVERNMENT GOING, KEEP IT OPEN,
SO I THINK THERE'S A CERTAIN
APPEAL IN ADDITION TO THE
PROCRASTINATION THAT CONTRIBUTES
TO THIS.
>> Woodruff: SOMETIMES PEOPLE
WANT TO AVERT THEIR EYES, BUT
HERE WE G AGAIN.
>> I'M UPBEAT.
I THINK WE HAVE A RIGHT TO BE
HAPPY AND JOYFUL IN THE HOLIDAY
SEASON.
WE ACTUALLY HAD A GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN NOT TOO LONG AGOND A
NOW THE ODDS ARE WE WON'T HAVE
ONE.
THE CENTER HAS HELD.
BOEHNER, DEMOCRAT, REPUBLICAN,
SEEMS LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO WIN
THIS THING, NOT WITHOUT
SETBACKS, BUT THEY'LL WIN.
BOEHNER HAS MORE CONTROL OVER
THE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS THAN SIX
MONTHS OR A YEAR AGO.
THAT'S THERE ARING AND
PRODUCTIVE.
THE DEMOCRATS ARE BEGINNING TO
ACT IN OPPOSITION AND WE'RE
BEGINNING TO SEE THE SHIFTS
THERE.
THE BIG LOSER OF THE WEEK IS
HILLARY CLINTON.
IF YOU THOUGHT SHE WOULD
CAKEWALK TO THE CORONATION, THAT
AIN'T GONNA HAPPEN, CLEARLY.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS
BEGINNING TO HAVE AN ARGUMENT
WIINTH ITSELF WITH A MORE
POPULAR WING, MORE ESTABLISHMENT
WING, PARALLEL TO THE
REPUBLICANS A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO, BUT NICE.
WE'VE SEEN A LOT OF FORMATIONS
INTHE  NEXT TWO YEARS COME INTO
BEING.
>> Woodruff: DAVID IS
REFERRING TO LIREFERRING TO ELIN
FROM MASSACHUSETTS.
THERE ARE OTHER LIBERAL
DEMOCRATS UNHAPPY ABOUT CHANGING
CAMPAIGN FINANCE.
IS THIS WHAT WE HAVE TO LOOK
FORWARD TO IN THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY?
>> WELL, I THINK I HAVE A LITTLE
DIFFERENT TAKE FROM DAVID IN THE
SENSE AT THE I THINK THE
DEMOCRATS -- IN THE SENSE I
THINK THE DEMOCRATS HAD A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY TO DEFINE THEMSELVES
AS A PARTY.
THEY'D GONE THROUGH AN ELECTION
WHERE THEY'D NEVER HAD AN
ECONOMIC MESSAGE AND HERE'S A
BILL PRESENTED WITH THE
AMENDMENT, QUITE OPENLY WRITTEN
BY CITIGROUP, YOU KNOW.
THE FOUR BIGGEST BANKS IN THE
COUNTRY HANDLE 93% AND THIS IS
WRITTEN FOR THEM.
IT'S TO MAKE THEIR BUSINESS
EASIER AND TO PROVIDE BACKUP IN
CASE THINGS STILL GO WRONGAT
MR. AND MRS. TAXPAYER OF THIS
COUNTRY, WE'LL BAIL THEM OUT
ONCE MORE IN THE WORST POSSIBLE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
THEY SAY, OH, IT'S MAKING IT
EASIER LOGISTICALLY AND SO
FOREST.
THE DEMOCRATS HAD A CHANCE TO
BREAK DOWN, NANCY PELOSI STOOD
UP ON IT, AND THE WHITE HOUSE
BUCKLED TOO SOON.
I THINK THEY HAD THE REPUBLICANS
VERY MUCH IN THE SENSE THAT THEY
DIDN'T WANT TO DENY PATERNITY OF
THIS PROVISION.
IT TIES THEM VERY MUCH INTO THE
NEGATIVE PUBLIC STEREOTYPE OF
THE PARTY IS TOO CLOSE TO BIG
MONEY.
ON TOP OF THAT, THEY OKAY UP U D
THE AMOUNT OF MONEY BILLIONAIRES
CAN GIVE.
YOU ENDED UP WITH SEVEN OUT OF
TEN DEMOCRATS VOTING AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT ON THIS BILL.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
IT'S A GOOD THING, DAVID, FOR
THE DEMOCRATS.
>> IT'S BOUND TO BE A GOOD
THING.
IT'S VERY MUCH LIKE WHAT
HAPPENED IN THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY.
IT'S A DIFFERENCE IN ARE YOU
TRYING TO MAKE A STATEMENT OR
PASS A LAW.
IF YOU ARE PROGRESSIVE AND YOU
HAVE TWO GREAT ISSUES, YOU CAN
MAKE A STATEMENT.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IF YOU DON'T
PASS THIS RIGHT NOW AND YOU KICK
IT OVER TO THE NEXT CONGRESS,
IT'S CERTAINLY GOING TO BE WORSE
ON A WHOLE OTHER RANGE OF ISSUES
FOR DEMOCRATS BECAUSE
REPUBLICANS WILL BE IN CONTROL.
SO THE PEOPLE WHO SUPPORTED THIS
THING LIKE BARACK OBAMA, THEY
WILL LOOK AT A WHOLE RANGE OF
ISSUES.
IF YOU'RE TRYING TO DEFINE YOUR
PARTY, MARK IS RIGHT, ELIZABETH
WARREN HAS A GOOD DEFINING
ISSUE.
IF YOU'RE TRYING TO PASS A LAW,
IT WILL BE GOOD FOR YOU AND A
WHOLE OTHER RANGE OF ISSUES,
BARACK OBAMA IS RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT GESTURES TO THE D. J.
PARTY ON IMMIGRATION REFORM,
EXECUTIVE ACTION, NET
NEUTRALITY?
>> NO QUESTION.
I THINK THIS IS A CRUNCH
QUESTION.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION THE REPUBLICANS COULD
NOT.
THIS IS A PRACTICAL POLITICAL
QUESTION RATHER THAN SYMBOLIC
AND PHILOSOPHICAL.
I THINK THE REPUBLICANS WERE IN
A TERRIBLE POSITION.
THE MORE HEAT, THE MORE LIGHT,
THE MORE ATTENTION FOCUSED ON
THESE TWO PROVISIONS WOULD HAVE
PUT THEM VERY MUCH ON THE
DEFENSIVE TO THE POINT THAT TEA
PARTY REPUBLICANS WERE UPSET
BECAUSE TO HAVE THE MONEY.
THEY SAY IT'S OPENING UP THE
MONEY, THE MILLIONAIRES AND
BILLIONAIRES MONEY, TO THE
ESTABLISHMENT AS A REPUBLICAN
PARTY AND RUNNING AGAINST THEM
AS THEY DID VERY EFFECTIVELY IN
2014 IN PRIMARIES SO THAT
THEY'LL NOMINATE MORE
ESTABLISHMENT CANDIDATES.
SO I THINK A MISSED OPPORTUNITY
IS HERE AND I THINK THE WHITE
HOUSE, DWIGHT FRANKLY, IS
EYEBALL TO EYEBALL WITHONGRESS E
WHITE HOUSE BLINKED.
>> A LOT OF IT IS WHAT'S GETTING
YOUR JUICES FLOWING, AND FOR
ELIZABETH WARREN, THIS ISSUE ON
DERIVATIS GEVETS HER JUICES
FLOWING AND FOR A LOT OF
DEMOCRATS IT IS A CORE ISSUE.
FOR OTHERS, IT'S NOT, THEY'RE
NOT PASSIONATELY INVOLVED.
THAT'S WHY I LEAP AHEAD TO THE
PRIMARY SEASON.
THAT'S WHY ELIZABETH WARREN OWES
IT   TO US TO RUN TO MAKE OUR
LIVES INTERESTING.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL TALK ABOUT
THAT ANOTHER FRIDAY.
THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE REPORT
ON THE C.I.A. SO-CALLED ENHANCED
INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES OR AS
OTHERS SAY IS MIEW YOU HAVE YO R
TERROR.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> THE CRITICS SAID THEY DIDN'T
TALK TO ENOUGH PEOPLE, IT WASN'T
COMPLETE.
IT SHOULDN'T COME OUT AT THIS
TIME, WASN'T HELPFUL.
IS IT TRUE?
YES, IT'S TRUE.
DID THE UNITED STATES -- I MEAN,
RONALD REAGAN SIGNED THE
ANTI-TORTURE U.N. CONVENTION AS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
IN 1988, THE SENATE RATIFIED IT
IN 1994.
TORTURE WAS DECLARED NOT SIMPLY
IMMORAL BUT ILLEGAL.
IN 2001, WE REPEALED IT, WITHOUT
ANY OFFICIAL ACT, IT WAS
EFFECTIVELY REPEALED.
AND THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ABOUT.
AND ON THIS ISSUE, JUDY, IT'S
VERY RARE THAT THIS HAPPENS IN
AMERICAN PUBLIC LIFE.
THERE'S ONE FIGURE WHO STANDS
UNASALABLE AND ALONE AS AN
AUTHORITY AND THAT IS JOHN
McCAIN.
JOHN McCAIN IS THE MORAL
CLARITY ON THIS TORTURE ISSUE
AND REPORT AND HE IS THE ONE WHO
SAID QUITE BLUNTLY, YES, WE
SHOULD HAAD REPORT AND
WHAT WAS DONE WAS WRONG AND WE
AS AMERICANS ARE BETTER.
HE BELIEVES IN
AMERICANCEPTIONLEISM.
>> IT CUTS THROUGH THE OCEAN OF
YO
IT GETS TO STRAIGHT LSLY TORTUR.
WHEN YOU CUT THROUGH IT, THE
TECHNOLOGYING OR THE METAPHOR
AND THE EUPHEMISM IS DESIGNED TO
DULL THE MORAL SENSIBILITY.
IT'S HARD TO READ THIS REPORT
AND NOT BE MORALLY OUTRAGED.
SO THAT HAD A GREAT EFFECT.
THE SECOND ISSUE RAISED WHICH IS
ANOTHER ISSUE McCAIN HAS GONE
TO IS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
EVIDENCE AND I THINK WE'RE RIGHT
TO BE GNOSTIC ABOUT THAT.
JOHN BRENNAN SAYS HE'S NOT SURE,
UNKNOWABLE WHETHER IT HELPED.
McCAIN SAYS FROM HIS OWN
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE THAT TORTURE
LEADS TO BAD INTELLIGENCE.
HE'S PROBABLY RIGHT ABOUT THAT.
SO WE'RE UNSURE ABOUT THAT.
I HAVE SYMPATHY FOR SOME WHO SAY
THE DOCUMENT WAS TOO PARTISAN,
WRITTEN BY DEMOCRATIC STAFFERS,
DONE IN A PARTISAN WAY.
I'M A LITTLE BOTHERED AS A
REPORTER THEY DIDN'T INTERVIEW
AS MANY PEOPLE AS THEY SHOULD
HAVE, THERE'S SOME MERIT IN
THAT.
THE THING THEY WHITEWASH IS THE
ROLE OF CONGRESS AND EVEN THE
DEMOCRATS HERE.
AT THE TIME, THE C.I.A. SAID
THEY DEBRIEFED PEOPLE AND NOW A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE ON THEIR HIGH
HORSE WHO SAT IN THE ROOMS AND
SAY THEY WEREN'T FOR IT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT MATTERS
ABOUT THIS, MARK?
>> IT'S NOT A PERFECT DOCUMENT
AND I DON'T THINK ANYBODY IS
PRETENDING IT IS.
WHAT MATTERS IS DO WE CONFRONT
WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WAS
DONE IN OUR NAME AND UNDER OUR
FLAG AND, YOU KNOW, TO QUOTE
JOHN McCAIN, THIS ISN'T ABOUT
OUR ENEMIES, IT'S ABOUT WHO WE
WERE, WHO WE ARE AND WHO WE
ASPIRE TO BE.
AND I WASN'T JUST BEING GLIB
WHEN I SAID HE BELIEVES IN
AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ON THE LEFT WHO
ARE VERY SUPPORTIVE OF
McCAIN'S POSITION DON'T THINK
AMERICA IS EXCEPTIONAL
OTHERWISE, AND ALL THE PEOPLE
WHO TALK ABOUT AMERICA BEING
EXCEPTIONAL AND DOING WHATEVER
WE WANT MILITARILY, ALL OF A
SUDDEN ARE VERY DEFENSIVE AND
DON'T ETCH PRETEND TO HOLD US TO
A STANDARD ON SOMETHING LIKE
TORTURE.
THIS WAS TORTURE.
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DOES NOT HOLD SOMEBODY BY CHAIN
TO A FLOOR HALF NAKED AND LET
HIM FREEZE TO DEATH IN THE NAME
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
WE DON'T DO THAT.
DAVID'S RIGHT.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO READ IT AND
NOT TO BE MORALLY UPSET.
>> Woodruff: IF THAT'S THE
CASE, WHY AREN'T WE TALKING
ABOUT PUNISHMENT FOR THE PEOPLE
WHO DID THIS?
>> PEOPLE WERE PUT IN MISERABLE
JOBS AND DECISIONS WERE MADE AT
POLITICAL LEVEL.
THERE WERE A LOT OF DECISIONS
MADE AND THEN DON'T TELL ME WHAT
TO DO UNDER THE AEGIS OF THE
DECISION I JUST MADE.
I WOULD HESITATE TO DO IT.
IT WAS A TOUGH TIME.
THEY DIDN'T KNOW WHAT AL QUAIDA
WAS UP TO.
I DO THINK THEY WERE MOTIVATED
BY THE NATIONAL SECURITY
INTEREST.
I THINK IT WAS WRONG.
I THINK THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
INVOLVED, WE KNOW THIS FROM THE
REPORT, WERE APPALLED AT THE
TIME, BUT SOMETIMES THEY
THOUGHT, YOU KNOW, THEY WERE
DOING THE RIGHT THING.
WE KILL PEOPLE ALL THE TIME WITH
DRONES.
KILLING IS PROBABLY WORSE THAN
TORTURE, THOSE MORAL CALCULUS
SHOULD NOT BE LEGALIZED EXCEPT
IN EXTREME CASES, IN MY OPINION.
>> Woodruff: THE C.I.A. COMES
OUT OF THIS HOW?
>> I THINK DAMAGED AND WOUNDED.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT JOHN BRENNAN
IS TRYING TO DO.
MOST ARE HONEST, EFFECTIVE,
DEDICATED PROFESSIONALS WHO GET
INTELLIGENCE WITHOUT TORTURING
PEOPLE AND WITHOUT DEGRADING
OTHER HUMAN BEINGS, WHO DO THAT
EVERY DAY AND WELL.
>> IT WASN'T JUST THE C.I.A.
IT WAS THE WHOLE COUNTRY, A LOT
OF PEOPLE UP THE POLITICAL
CHAIN, IN CONGRESS AND THE
PUBLIC AND WE'RE TRYING TO
REDISCOVER OUR MORAL CENTER.
>> Woodruff: TOUGH QUESTIONS
TONIGHT.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS, WE
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
LOOK AT THE UNVARNISHED LIFE OF
A MUCH BELOVED AMERICAN LITERARY
ICON.
HER AUTOBIOGRAPHY, THE BASIS OF
MUCH OF HER WRITING, WAS WRITTEN
ALMOST 100 YEARS AGO BUT NEVER
PUBLISHED UNTIL NOW.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR LOOK.
>> Brown: SHE DIDN'T BEGIN TO
WRITE UNTIL SHE WAS IN HER
60s, BUT LAURA INGALLS
WILDER'S FIRST EFFORT AT
FICTION, THE LITTLE HOUSE IN THE
BIG WOODS, PUBLISHED 1932, WAS A
SERIES ABOUT LIFE OBSERVE THE
GREAT PLAINS THAT'S BEEN
TREASURED BY GENERATIONS OF
CHILDREN SELLING 60 MILLION
COPIES AND TRANSLATED INTO MORE
THAN 40 LANGUAGES.
GENERATIONS TOOK TO THE
LONG-RUNNING 1970s TV SERIES
BASED ON THE BOOKS.
ALL OF THESE LITTLE HOUSE ON THE
PRAIRIE STORIES WERE IN FACT
BASED ON WILDER'S OWN LIFE AND
TURNS OUT SHE ORIGINALLY TRIED
TO TELL HER STORY IN AN
AUTOBIOGRAPHY, ONE NEVER
PUBLISHED.
NOW SOME 90 YEARS LATER, THE
SOUTH DAKOTA HISTORICAL SOCIETY
PRESS IS BRINGING OUT "PIONEER
GIRL," THE ANNOTATED BIOGRAPHY.
THE EDITOR IS PAMELA SMITH HILL,
ENGLISH PROFESSOR, WHO ALSO
WROTE A BIOGRAPHY OF WILDER.
WELCOME.
IT'S INTERESTING.
HER FIRST IMPULSE AS A WRITER
WAS TO NONFICTION.
>> YES, EXACTLY.
WHAT A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T
UNDERSTAND ABOUT LAURA INGALLS
WILDER IS THAT SHE ACTUALLY
STARTED HER PROFESSIONAL WRITING
CAREER AS A JOURNALIST.
SHE WROTE FOR THE MISSOURI
ROYALIST.
A MAJOR FOREIGN PUBLICATION IN
MISSOURI IN THE EARLY 20t
20th CENTURY.
SO SHE WAS USED TO DEALING WITH
FACTS AND REALITY AND I THINK
THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS SHE
ATTEMPTED TO WRITE AN
AUTOBIOGRAPHY FIRST.
>> Brown: THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE INTENDED FOR
CHILDREN, FROM WHAT I READ.
I MEAN, IT HAS A LOT ABOUT ADULT
RELATIONSHIP, SOME REAL-WORLD
VIOLENCE.
HOW DIFFERENT IS IT FROM WHAT WE
CAME TO KNOW IN THE NOVELS?
>> WHEN WILDER WROTE "PIONEER
GIRL" SHE INTENDED TO WRITE IT
FOR AN ADULT AUDIENCE, YOU'RE
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT ABOUT THAT.
SHE WAS HOPING THAT A MAJOR
NATIONAL MAGAZINE LIKE THE
SATURDAY EVENING POST OR THE
LADIES HOME JOURNAL WOULD
SERIALIZE HER AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
SHE WAS HOPING FOR MAGAZINE
SERIALIZATION AND THEN A BOOK
DEAL LATER ON.
IT WAS A DIFFERENT PUBLISHING
WORLD THAN WHEN SHE FINISHED
PIONEER GIRL IN 1930.
>> Brown: WHAT VOWS JUMPS OUT
AT YOU FROM READING HER OWN
WORDS?
>> THE VOICE IN PIONEER GIRL IS
MORE MATURE BUT ALSO VERY
INTIMATE, VERY PERSONABLE.
IT'S ALMOST AS IF YOU'RE SITTING
ACROSS FROM LAURA INGALLS WILDER
AT HER KITCHEN TABLE AND SHE'S
TELLING YOU HER LIFE STORY.
BUT SHE'S TELLING IT AS AN ADULT
LOOKING BACK ON HER CHILDHOOD
AND THAT'S A VERY DIFFERENT
VOICE THAN IN THE LITTLE HOUSE
SERIES.
IN TERMS OF HER LIFE ITSELF,
WHAT SHE REVEALS IN PIONEER GIRL
IS IN MANY WAYS SIMILAR TO WHAT
SHE DISCUSSES IN THE NOVEL, BUT
SHE PRESENTS A TOUGHER LIFE, A
HARDER LIFE, AND YET THE INGALLS
FAMILY ITSELF WAS STILL VERY
LOVING AND OPTIMISTIC, VERY
WARM.
>> Brown: IS THERE AN EXAMPLE
YOU CAN GIVE US?
>> I THINK MOST WILDER FANS
ALREADY KNOW LAURA INGALLS
WILDER HAD A BABY BROTHER.
SHE DID NOT WRITE ABOUT HIS
BIRTH OR HIS DEATH IN THE LITTLE
HOUSE SERIES BUT SHE DOES
EXPLORE HIS VERY SHORT LIFE.
HE LIVED ONLY NINE MONTHS.
IN PIONEER GIRL.
THAT'S ONE OF THE MOST REVEALING
EPISODES IN THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
BUT SHE TALKS ABOUT A PERIOD IN
HER FAMILY'S LIFE WHERE THE
INGALLS FAMILY MOVED EAST
INSTEAD OF WEST LIKE THEY DO IN
THE NOVELS.
CHARLES INGALLS ABANDONED HIS
DREAM OF LIVING OFF THE LAND AND
INSTEAD THE FAMILY MANAGED A
HOTEL FOR A SHORT TIME IN IOWA.
I THINK THE FAMILY PRETTY MUCH
HIT ROCK BOTTOM FINANCIALLY AND
WERE STRUGGLING TO MAKE ENDS
MEET.
SO THERE'S A WHOLE SECTION IN
PIONEER GIRL THAT WILL BE NEW TO
THE READERS OF THE LITTLE HOUSE
BOOKS.
>> Brown: FINALLY AND BRIEFLY,
WHAT EXPLAINS THE INCREDIBLE
SUCCESS OF THE NOVELS THROUGH SO
MANY YEARS AND GENERATIONS?
>> WILDER'S FIRST EDITOR
DESCRIBED THE LITTLE HOUSE BOOKS
AS THE BOOKS THAT NO DEPRESSION
COULD BEAT.
WILDER WROTE THE BOOKS IN THE
DEPRESSION, IN THE 1940s AND
INTO WORLD WAR II.
I THINK THE BOOKS HAVE A GREAT
DEAL OF OPTIMISM AND HOPE BUT I
THINK WHAT MAKES THE BOOKS
ENDURE IS WILDER'S UNIQUE AND
PERSONABLE VOICE.
IT'S VERY INTIMATE.
IT'S ONCE THE SIMPLE AND YET
ELOQUENT, AND ALSO MANAGES TO
AGE ALONG WITH ITS MAIN
CHARACTER.
SO THE OPENING BOOKS IN THE
SERIES ARE VERY CHILD, LIKE, AND
FULL OF WONDER.
IN THE END OF THE SERIES, THE
VOICE IS MORE MATURE AND YET
SOMEHOW STILL CONSISTENT.
AND I THINK THAT UNIQUE VOICE
OFFERS READERS A CHANCE TO
PROJECT THEIR OWN DREAMS AND
FEELINGS AND ASPIRATIONS INTO
THE BOOK.
I THINK THAT'S WHY IT'S ENDURED.
>> Brown: PAMELA SMITH HILL,
EDITOR OF PIONEER GIRL BY LAURA
INGALLS WILDER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE PRICE OF OIL PLUNGED AGREL,D
TOOK WALL SEET TRWITH IT.
THE DOW LOST MORE THAN 300
POINTS.
AND THE SENATE BEGAN WORK ON A
$1.1 TRILLION SPENDING BILL TO
FUND GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS.
IT SCRAPED BY THE HOUSE LAST
NIGHT
ONLINE, WE CONTINUE THE
NEWSHOUR'S TWELVE DAYS OF GIFT-
GIVING WITH SOME SWEET TREATS
FROM OUR STAFF.
WE'VE COMPILED OUR FAVORITE
COOKIE RECIPES, INCLUDING
PEPPERMINT CHOCOLATE CHIP.
FIND THOSE ON OUR HOME PAGE AND
BE SURE TO CHECK BACK ON SUNDAY
FOR A SPECIAL NEWSHOUR CROSSWORD
PUZZLE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
WASHINGTON WEEK, WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: TREADING THE LINE
BETWEETE
DID THE C.I.A. DO WHAT IT HAD
TO, BY ANY MEANS NECESSARY?
AND ON CAPITOL HILL, HOW MUCH
DRAMA CAN A ONE TRILLION DOLLAR
BUDGET BILL CREATE?
WE'LL TACKLE BOTH QUESTIONS,
WITH THE REPORTERS WHO HAVE BEEN
COVERING THE STORIES, TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THE NEWS
DOESN'T STOP ON FRIDAY.
TUNE IN TO PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
ON SATURDAY AND SUNDAY EVENINGS.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.